Now, the theme of my discussion is despite changing circumstances, always see the big picture.
Perhaps you've heard the expression, he can't see the forest for the trees.
This is referring to a person who is too involved in the details of a problem to see the
situation as a whole.
Now, that's a dangerous problem for anyone, but especially one of Jehovah's people, no
matter what the circumstances.
We want to always see the big picture.
The first sentence in today's Watchtower comments says this.
Philip, the evangelizer, provides a fine example of one who stayed focused on the ministry,
despite changing circumstances.
And for us, just like Philip, the big picture is always Jehovah's thinking.
See, Jehovah's view of the situation, Jehovah's thinking, Jehovah's viewpoint is so lofty,
isn't it?
So elevated.
Open up to Isaiah, please, chapter 55.
And notice what is said here about the altitude of Jehovah's thinking.
Jehovah says in verse 9, For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so my ways are
higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.
And if you think about it, viewpoint really does make a difference, isn't it?
Makes a huge difference.
For example, if you walk up to the world trade buildings on the sidewalk, look up.
It's overwhelming and intimidating.
On the other hand, if you fly over the world trade building in an airplane, look out the
window at it.
It looks like a matchstick stuck in the ground.
Well, viewpoint makes a difference.
Here's another illustration.
Imagine you're lost in a complex maze.
Now, overhead though, is a trusted friend and a helicopter.
Now, that friend could easily direct you to safety, isn't not true.
Well, in this illustration, our trusted friend with elevated view is, of course, Jehovah.
In fact, while you're still looking at this picture, let me read to you, please,
Jehovah's words at Isaiah, chapter 30, verse 21, his promise.
He says, and your own ears will hear a word behind you saying, this is the way.
Walk in it.
In case you should go to the right or in case you should go to the left.
So if we make Jehovah's thinking or thinking, then Jehovah will safely guide us through
any situation, but now what makes it challenging to always see the big picture?
Well, as we touched on changing circumstances, first Corinthians 731, the scene of this world
is changing. Similarly, we could say the scene of our lives is constantly changing.
In fact, let's talk about some changing circumstances that could come our way
before the end of this system in which we want to always see the big picture.
Now, one, a change of residence as we touched on that happened to Philip.
He was forced out of the Jerusalem because of intense persecution. He ended up in Samaria,
but he saw the big picture there. He knew he didn't have to be in Jerusalem to preach.
He didn't have to be in Jerusalem to serve Jehovah. He could do it in Samaria.
And he did so powerfully. Probably the most outstanding example of a change of residence is Jesus.
He left his heavenly abode of billions of years to live on this little tiny earth.
But obviously, he always saw the big picture by making Jehovah's thinking, his thinking,
Abraham and Sarah. Another excellent example, drastic change in residence.
Well, that may happen to us. We may have a change of residence either by no choice of our own
or by choice. We may choose to move and serve with the need is greater.
We may have to move to care for family responsibility. I know of a Bethel couple at Bethel,
almost 25 years, they had to leave to care for a father who had dementia, but they continue
to see the big picture. They know that you can preach, you can go to meetings, you can
read God's word, you can serve Jehovah wherever you live. Now, here's another changing circumstance.
You develop chronic health problems. Perhaps problems that will only be corrected by Jehovah's
New World. Now, in this vein, think for a moment about Jehovah. He was struck with
answerous boils from the crown of his head to the souls of his feet, brought to within one
inch of death. He wished he was dead. And yet, he saw the big picture, didn't he?
I've got to keep integrity to Jehovah, no matter what. He even said at Joe 27-5,
until I die, I will not renounce my integrity. Now, he didn't have no idea he would be restored
to good health. But he knew if he kept his integrity, he would be resurrected.
Jehovah would call him, and he would answer from the grave. Well, the same with us.
We may develop chronic health problems. We may even die before the end of the system.
But if we keep our integrity, such an individual will take a quick nap. And from his perspective,
instantaneously open his eyes in the New World, if he keeps his integrity like Joe.
And if you think about this, no matter how long we have to suffer some illness,
it's momentary compared to the permanency of perfect health in Jehovah's New World.
That's what 2 Corinthians 417 says. For the tribulation is momentary in light,
yet it works out for us a glory that is everlasting. So if we keep our eyes on a big picture,
maintain integrity, we can trade a moment of pain for an eternity of perfect health.
You could say an ounce of suffering for gigatons of pleasure.
Think of that. A gigaton of billion tons compared to an ounce.
Here's another changing circumstance. We encounter perceived injustice in the congregation.
Now, you know what we said, perceived. Because often things are not the way we see them to be.
We can't read hearts. We don't have all the facts. Often our view is like trying to look into a large
house through the front door. This cracked open one inch, very limited view we have.
So seeing the big picture will recognize we don't have all the facts.
And seeing the big picture will recognize who do have all the facts. Jehovah,
everything is naked and openly exposed to him. Jesus, revelation 21 refers to him as having
the seven stars the elders in his right hand. And walking about among the seven golden lamp stands.
So Jesus, the head of the congregation, he has the facts. So once we've done what's in our Jewish
diction, perhaps report the matter. Seeing the big picture will leave it in the hands of those who
have all the facts confident that they will take care of this matter. If it truly is an injustice,
they will take care of it in their time and their way. Now, here's another changing circumstance.
We come face to face with some temptation. Now, in a case like this, we want to be nothing like Eve.
She obviously didn't see the big picture, did she? If she had, she would have realized this serpent
has done nothing from me. Jehovah has done everything from me. In a contradictory situation,
who obviously would be telling me the truth? Instead, we want to battle like Jesus. When he was
tempted by the devil, he saw the big picture, didn't he? The issue of universal far sovereignty.
So if we're tempted to look at pornography, listen to apostate ideas.
For it was someone who's not our mate, as just a few examples, let's pause, elevate our thinking,
make Jehovah's thinking, our thinking, and let's see the big picture. And the big picture is
Satan is trying to get the thin edge of a wedge into our suit of armor. And anything this world
has to offer cannot begin to equal the value of our relationship with Jehovah, our place in his
new world. We'll also be able to fast forward if we see the big picture and see the horrible consequences
of giving in to temptation. Now, here's one more changing circumstance. We're persecuted.
And this can go from ridicule to threatened with being executed and or even executed.
Think of David for just a moment. He was ridiculed. He was threatened with death by Goliath.
But even though David saw how big he was, but David saw the big picture, didn't he? He saw
how puny, how wimpy Goliath was compared to Jehovah, the Almighty. So the big picture has to
always include the Almighty God, Jehovah. And again, we'll be able to fast forward, see the horrible
consequences of compromising if we're persecuted. On the other hand, we'll see the wonderful
blessings. If we keep our integrity, we do not compromise. In fact, even if we're threatened with
death, we're executed. If we see the big picture, we'll realize that Satan has just handed us a
validated passport right into the new world. See, that is the big picture. Well, we've talked
about seeing the big picture when you have a change of residence, your health deteriorates,
you encounter a perceived injustice, you come face to face with temptation, you are persecuted.
And that's just a few examples. It may not be easy to always see the big picture in challenging
circumstances. But the key is to make Jehovah's thinking or thinking pause, elevate our thinking,
view it from Jehovah's standpoint. The result will be protection and blessings coming our way
and praise going Jehovah's way.